# Josh Gilberstadt Personal Portfolio PWA
#### Video Demo:
#### Description:
This repository hosts a progressive web app (PWA) showcasing my coding projects. It contains three pages: an about page, a projects page, and a contact page. The about page contains a profile picture and describes my work experience, education, and future software development goals. Below this description is a technical stack listing the programming languages, tools, and platforms I use most often. At the bottom of the page are two buttons that allow the user to download my resume and be redirected to the projects page. I decided to make the about page the root page of the application so the user knows about the type of work I do before they review my projects or decide to contact me. The projects page displays four coding projects that I've selected and provides a description of the project and the languages/libraries that were used to create the project. Each project is displayed as an individual card and is hyperlinked to the repository storing the project's code. There is also a button at the bottom of the projects page that redirects the user to the contact page if they decide they want to contact me after reviewing my projects. The contact page contains several buttons that, when clicked, allow the user to either send an email or visit my LinkedIn or GitHub account. Different users may have different preferences for how to contact me, so I listed three different options to give the user a choice based on their personal preferences.

I created header and footer partial files to minimize redundant code and improve overall readability. My name is on the left side of the header, and it sends the user to the about page when it's clicked. The right side of the header on the desktop mode lists all three pages while the mobile version contains a menu button that displays all three pages when clicked, allowing the user to switch pages by clicking on the page they want to see. The desktop layout is more horizontal while the mobile layout is more vertical, so I created these two different layouts to display the menu in the way that best fits the device the user is using. There is also a sun/moon button on the right side of the header that allows the user to toggle the light/dark mode. The footer lists the year the application was created along with my name and location. It also contains links to my email, LinkedIn, and GitHub. I included these links in the footer even though there are also contact buttons in the contact page so the user doesn't need to always go back to the contact page if they want to contact me.

There are several other design choices besides the menu that I implemented to enhance the user experienced based on the user's device. On the about page, the profile picture and description are horizontally aligned on the desktop and vertically aligned on the mobile version to accomodate the different layouts. The project cards on the projects page are also laid out horizontally on the desktop and vertically on mobile devices.

I also created several supplementary files that contain various formatting and structural properties. The menu.js file contains numerous JavaScript functions such as injecting the header and footer client-side, displaying the mobile menu, and toggling the light/dark mode. These functions enhance user engagement and allow for a more customized experience. The style.css file contains the stylistic properties of the PWA such as spacing, text layouts, and color/highlighting properties.

I decided to create a PWA rather than a simple static website to improve both speed and usability. The portfolio uses a service worker called sw.js to cache the assets so they don't need to be repeatedly fetched from a server, which significantly reduces loading time. The PWA also allows the user to access the portfolio without internet, futher enhancing the user experience. In addition to the service worker, I also created a manifest.json file that contains the portfolio metadata and allows the portfolio to be viewed as an application.

